.TH KBD-AUTO-LAYOUTCTL 1 "April 2026" "kbd-auto-layout 0.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kbd-auto-layoutctl \- manage automatic keyboard layout rules for X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl
.RI [ --version ]
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl
is the command-line interface for configuring and inspecting
kbd-auto-layout.

It manages keyboard layout rules, default fallback settings, and daemon-related actions
for X11 sessions.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List detected keyboard devices.
.TP
.B layouts
List available X11 keyboard layouts.
.TP
.B variants \fIlayout\fR
List variants for a given layout.
.TP
.B status
Show config, detected keyboards, rules, and current XKB state.
.TP
.B assign \fIdevice layout\fR [\fIvariant\fR] [--match exact|contains]
Assign a layout rule to a device pattern.
.TP
.B remove \fIdevice\fR [--match exact|contains]
Remove a device rule.
.TP
.B set-default \fIlayout\fR [\fIvariant\fR]
Set the fallback default layout.
.TP
.B set-poll-interval \fIseconds\fR
Set the daemon polling interval in seconds.
.TP
.B reload
Send SIGHUP to the user daemon to reload configuration.
.TP
.B edit
Open the user configuration file in the configured editor.
.TP
.B init-config
Create a default user configuration file.
.TP
.B doctor
Run environment checks for X11 session, tools, and daemon status.
.TP
.B completion-zsh
Print the zsh completion script.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/kbd-auto-layout/config.ini
User configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/kbd-auto-layout/config.ini
System-wide configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List keyboards:
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl list
.TP
Assign English layout to a specific keyboard:
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl assign "Keychron K2 Max Keyboard" us
.TP
Assign by substring match:
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl assign "Keychron" us --match contains
.TP
Set default layout to Spanish:
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl set-default es nodeadkeys
.TP
Reload daemon configuration:
.B kbd-auto-layoutctl reload
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kbd-auto-layoutd (1),
.BR setxkbmap (1),
.BR xinput (1),
.BR localectl (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Giovanni Guarino
